ChronoMem: Version Control and Semantic Rollback for Large
Language Model Agent Memory
Yongye Su

Wujiang Xu

Purdue University
USA
su311@purdue.edu

Rutgers University
USA
wujiang.xu@rutgers.edu

Chaoji Zuo

Elisa Bertino

Rutgers University
USA
chaoji.zuo@rutgers.edu

Purdue University
USA
bertino@purdue.edu

arXiv:2607.27773v1 [cs.CL] 30 Jul 2026

Abstract
LLM agents increasingly rely on long-term memory to support
multi-session interaction and personalization. However, existing
agent memory systems are designed around forward-only evolutioncontinuously accumulating, consolidating, and overwriting knowledgewith no principled mechanism to inspect, version, or revert prior
states. This makes agents brittle under corrections, concept drift,
and memory corruption, particularly after the agent has already
been exposed to subsequent information. We present ChronoMem,
a semantic version-control layer for agentic memory, integrated
into a production-ready open-source agent framework (Agent Development Kit by Google). ChronoMem commits whole-memory
snapshots at each memory write, maintains structured version
histories, and supports natural-language rollback requests by mapping “undo” intents to concrete historical versions via hybrid lexical–semantic retrieval, rank fusion, and reranking. We further introduce a post-exposure evaluation protocol that tests whether an
agent can behave counterfactually after rollback-answering queries
and summarizing history as if future updates never occurred. On
long-horizon conversational benchmarks augmented with evolving memory states and rollback tasks, ChronoMem substantially
improves rollback-consistent question answering and history summarization relative to prompt-only and retrieval-only baselines,
while achieving strong recovery on semantic version selection. To
our knowledge, ChronoMem is the first open-source system and
benchmark for systematic, semantic, global memory rollback in
LLM agents.

CCS Concepts
• Information systems → Data management systems; Information storage systems; Information systems applications; Information retrieval; Retrieval models and ranking; • Computing
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ACM CAIS, San Jose, CA
© 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

methodologies → Natural language processing; Knowledge
representation and reasoning.

Keywords
Agent Memory, Large Language Models, Version Control, Semantic
Rollback, Data Management

1

Introduction

Large language model (LLM) agents increasingly rely on long-term
memory to support multi-session conversations [11, 15] and personalization [2, 9]. Modern agent frameworks extract facts, summaries,
and episodic traces from interactions and persist them in external
memory stores or knowledge bases [16, 22]. Over time, this process
produces a continuously evolving memory state whose updated
contents directly shape the agent’s downstream outputs. Following
recent work, long-term memory in agents is typically externalized as textual traces or structured databases rather than encoded
solely in model parameters, and should therefore be evaluated under incremental, multi-turn ingestion rather than in a single-block
long-context setting [7].
However, current LLM agents typically treat long-term memory
as an append-only or overwrite-only store [8]: once knowledge
is written, it is difficult to inspect its evolution, revert to a previous state, or reliably “undo” a faulty update. This lack of version
control and rollback makes agents vulnerable to error accumulation, outdated or contradictory knowledge, and memory poisoning [1]. Recent proprietary cloud services have begun exposing
built-in APIs for per-memory history management, but these operate at the level of opaque version identifiers (e.g., rollback to a
target_revision_id) and offer no public evaluation of how versioned memory affects agent behavior [5]. This gap raises several
fundamental challenges: (i) Semantic targeting: How can an agent
map a natural-language “undo” request to the correct historical
version without requiring users to know internal version IDs? (ii)
Global vs. local rollback: What is the right rollback granularity—
per-memory-entry versions as exposed by managed services, or
whole-memory snapshots needed to recover a temporally consistent
state for downstream tasks such as global history summarization?
(iii) End-to-end consistency: When memory is backed by external
indexes/corpora and tool calls induce side effects, how can rollback restore a globally consistent state across local memory, remote

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

stores, and tool-induced artifacts, given that existing rewind mechanisms are typically session-scoped, and explicitly do not restore
app/user-level resources nor external dependencies? 1 2
While rollback has been explored for web navigation and versioncontrol metaphors have been applied to context management in
other settings [19, 23], to our knowledge no open-source system or
benchmark yet systematically evaluates semantic, global memory
rollback under a post-exposure protocol over long-term conversational data. Existing long-horizon memory benchmarks assess
memory agents along dimensions such as accurate retrieval, testtime learning, long-range understanding, and selective forgetting,
but they assume a forward-evolving memory state and do not test
rollback-to-a-prior-global-state behavior under post-exposure evaluation [7, 11].
For example, an agent may progressively update its memory with
new user preferences, facts, or plans that later prove incorrect, outdated, or even adversarially injected. In such cases, users may wish
to roll back to a prior trusted memory state with a simple, naturallanguage “undo” instruction, yet mainstream agent stacks provide
no principled semantic mechanism for doing so. Prior work has
largely advanced agent memory in the forward direction—how to
continuously accumulate, consolidate, and retrieve evolving memories from natural-language interactions. In this work, we investigate
the reverse direction: after an agent has already observed subsequent interactions, can we restore a prior global memory state via
semantic version control and enable counterfactual behavior—that
is, “undo” at the memory-fact level as if the intervening interactions
never occurred? Figure 1 illustrates the contrast between appendonly memory evolution and our version-controlled memory with
semantic rollback.
We introduce ChronoMem, a semantic version-control layer for
agentic memory, built within a production-ready and open-sourced
agent framework3 . ChronoMem equips LLM agents with time-aware
memory snapshots, version histories, and rollback operations that
can be driven either by explicit version identifiers or by naturallanguage descriptions of the desired prior state.
Our contributions are as follows:
• We design and implement a version control abstraction for
LLM agent memory within an open-source production-ready
framework (ADK by Google), introducing global snapshots,
version histories, and commit semantics for agent memory,
and integrating these with a retrieval-backed persistent memory index backend.
• We propose the first open-source semantic global rollback
mechanism for agent memory that maps natural-language
“undo” requests to whole-memory versions, and implement
an end-to-end rollback pipeline with verifiable integrity
checks.
• We introduce a systematic evaluation standard for postexposure semantic rollback of agent memory by augmenting
long-term conversational memory benchmarks with evolving memory states, updates, and rollback tasks.
1 https://google.github.io/adk-docs/sessions/session/rewind/
2 https://openai.github.io/openai-agents-python/ref/run_internal/session_

persistence/
3 Agent Development Kit (ADK) by Google https://google.github.io/adk-docs/

Yongye Su, Wujiang Xu, Chaoji Zuo, and Elisa Bertino

ChronoMem establishes a new foundation for controllable longterm memory in LLM agents, moving from passive accumulation to
actively managed, reversible, and semantically searchable memory
states.

2 Related Work
2.1 LLM Agent Memory
Long-term memory has become essential for LLM agents operating across multi-session interactions. Early systems introduced
hierarchical memory management, reflection and summarization
over stored observations, and forgetting-curve-based update mechanisms to enable agents to maintain context beyond fixed context
windows [15, 16, 24]. A-Mem [20] shifted from passive storage to
agentic memory, where the agent itself dynamically organizes and
links memories through structured note-linking rather than relying
on fixed retrieval operations, marking a transition toward treating
memory as a first-class, self-organizing structure. Building on these
foundations, more recent works [2, 17] have scaled toward production deployment, introducing scalable memory extraction and
consolidation pipelines, graph-based representations that capture
relational structures among conversational elements, and temporal knowledge graphs that maintain bi-temporal models tracking
both when facts occurred and when they were ingested. These systems have been evaluated on increasingly comprehensive long-term
conversational benchmarks that test factual recall, temporal reasoning, and multi-hop inference across hundreds of dialogue turns
spanning dozens of sessions [11]. Despite this progress, existing
systems primarily focus on memory evolution (adding, updating,
consolidating, and selective forgetting) and typically do not expose
explicit version-control primitives that preserve whole-memory
snapshots or enable rollback to a prior global memory state. Once
a memory is overwritten or merged, prior states are often not retained in an accessible, auditable form, leaving agents vulnerable
to error accumulation and memory poisoning attacks where adversarially injected entries can propagate through future retrievals [1].
To our knowledge, no existing open-source system offers wholememory snapshots, commit-level versioning, or natural language
driven semantic rollback integrated into a production-ready agent
framework, which are the gaps that ChronoMem is designed to fill.

2.2

Traceable Version Control and Rollback

Rollback operations rely on traceable version control and persistent logging. In LLM agent memory, unlike selective forgetting
(e.g., revising beliefs to resolve contradictions), rollback is a reversible state-control primitive that restores a prior memory state
and enables counterfactual behavior after the agent has already
been exposed to later information.
Several works study how agent memories are edited or adapted
over time. Memory Sandbox exposes conversational memory as
editable objects that users can inspect, modify, or delete, improving
transparency but relying on manual operations [8]. Dynamic recall models introduce human-like decay and consolidation so that
frequently used facts remain accessible and obsolete ones fade [6].
These approaches manage how memory changes, but once an update is applied there is no automatic way to restore a prior global
snapshot.

ChronoMem: Version Control and Semantic Rollback for Large Language Model Agent Memory

Append-Only Agent Memory Evolution

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

Agent Memory with Semantic Rollback

I want to go grocery to buy some fruit

v1

I want to go grocery to buy some fruit

mem<shopping list> (add):
Fruit

v1

mem<shopping list> (add):
Fruit

I will go Paris see my uncle

v2

I will go Paris see my uncle

mem<travel>(add): Going to Paris visit uncle

v2

mem<travel>(add): Going to Paris visit uncle

I’d buy some Vinyl for him
when I go shopping

v3

I’d buy some Vinyl for him
when I go shopping

v3

mem<shopping list>(add):
Vinyl for visiting uncle in Paris

…

mem<shopping list>(add):
Vinyl for visiting uncle in Paris

…

Go back to before I planned the Paris trip.

v4

Go back to before I planned the Paris trip.

vT

mem<travel>(add): user will not go Paris

mem<travel>(ROLLBACK vT → v1)

What’s on my shopping list?

v4

What’s on my shopping list?

mem<shopping list> (Retrieved):
Fruit
Vinyl for visiting uncle in Paris ❌ Wrong!

Agent

Memory State
can’t rollback

v1

Human

mem<shopping list> (Retrieved):
Fruit
✅ Correct!

Agent

Memory State
rolled back to v1 via
natural language input

Human

Figure 1: Comparison between append-only versus version-controlled agent memory with semantic rollback. Left: Irreversible
memory only moves forward-reads are bound to the latest state 𝑆 (𝑣𝑇 ). Right: ChronoMem’s memory-level semantic rollback
enables a controlled memory state versioning (𝑣𝑇 → 𝑣 1 ), rolling back to previous memory state 𝑆 (𝑣 1 ) and enforcing historical
consistency in subsequent reads.
Work

Rollback Target

Targeting Interface

Open-source-based

Public Rollback Eval

ChronoMem (ours)

Global Agent Memory

Natural Language → Rollback

✓

✓

Vertex AI Memory Revisions
ADK Session Rewind
OpenAI Agents Sessions
WebRollback

Memory-id specific revision
Session state/artifacts
Session history items
Navigation trajectory

Revision ID (target_revision_id)
Invocation/rewind point ID
pop_item/history ops
Explicit rollback action

×
✓
✓
×

×
×
×
✓

Table 1: Scope comparison of rollback mechanisms. Vertex provides per-memory revision history and rollback via a revision
identifier (e.g., target_revision_id) [5]. ADK rewind is session-scoped and explicitly does not restore app/user-level resources
nor external dependencies [4]. OpenAI Agents SDK Sessions manage conversation history with operations such as pop_item for
undoing recent turns and are released under an open-source license [14]. WebRollback evaluates rollback over navigation
trajectories [23]. Existing long-horizon memory benchmarks (e.g., LoCoMo, MemoryAgentBench) do not test rollback-to-aprior-global-memory-state behavior [7, 11].

Closer to our setting, there is emerging work on rollback for
other forms of LLM-driven state. Git-Context Controller (GCC)
treats an agent’s code context like a version-controlled filesystem, with commit, branch, and merge operations for reasoning
traces [19]. Database research proposes a middleware layer that
treats LLM-generated database transactions as removable and uses

invariant-based coordination so that rolling back a transaction preserves ACID consistency [21]. In WebRollback [23], web agents can
revert to previous navigation states in a search tree and re-plan,
improving robustness on complex web tasks. In industry practice,
Vertex AI Agent Engine added a proprietary Memory Revisions
feature that records individual memory edits and supports rollback
via a revision (version) identifier (e.g.,target_revision_id) in a

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

managed memory bank [5]. In addition, common framework utilities such as ADK session rewind and OpenAI Agents SDK session
persistence can undo session-scoped history items, but do not provide semantic rollback over globally versioned long-term memory
states [4, 13, 14]. Table 1 shows the aforementioned scope difference. Finally, AgentPoison shows that poisoning an agent’s memory or knowledge base can induce persistent backdoor behaviors,
underscoring the need for stronger control over what agents remember [1]. Compared to these efforts, ChronoMem targets internal
long-term agent memory rather than database or environment state,
is implemented in an open-source agent framework, and focuses
specifically on semantic version selection and global rollback to
whole-memory snapshots rather than ID-only, per-memory-entry
rollback or manual rewind.

2.3

Memory Retrieval and Evaluation

Work on long-term memory evaluation emphasizes retrieval and
usage, not version control. LoCoMo proposes a benchmark of very
long, multi-session conversations and evaluates whether agents
can recall and use information from earlier sessions for question
answering and event summarization [11]. MemoryAgentBench defines four competencies for memory-enabled agents-accurate retrieval, test-time learning, long-range understanding, and selective
forgetting-and measures performance on incremental multi-turn
tasks [7]. These benchmarks reveal that current systems struggle
with long-horizon memory and forgetting, even when equipped
with vector databases or extended context windows. However, they
assume a single evolving memory state and do not consider choosing among multiple historical memory versions or restoring a prior
global memory state under post-exposure rollback.
In contrast to prior work, ChronoMem provides a frameworklevel, open-source mechanism for semantic version control and
rollback of agent memory. It maintains a versioned chronological
memory within ADK, maps natural-language “undo” requests to
concrete memory snapshots, and consistently maintains both local memory and retrieval-backed memory indexes. Our evaluation
augments long-horizon conversational memory benchmarks with
evolving memory states and rollback probes, and measures rollbackconsistent QA/summarization under post-exposure, providing the
first systematic evaluation of semantic global rollback for versioned
agent memory in long-term conversational settings.

3

System Design of ChronoMem: The Natural
Language “Undo” Button of Agent Memory
3.1 Goal and Scope
ChronoMem provides version-controlled, reversible long-term memory
for LLM agents running in a modern agent framework. We target agents built on Google’s open-sourced Agent Development Kit
(ADK), where an agent execution is orchestrated by a runtime event
loop (Runner) and persists interaction traces as session events and
state, while optionally using a MemoryService to maintain searchable long-term knowledge across sessions. While ADK supports
session-level rewind for reverting a session to a previous request
state, rewind is explicitly scoped to session-managed resources and
does not restore app/user-level state or external dependencies [4].

Yongye Su, Wujiang Xu, Chaoji Zuo, and Elisa Bertino

Our goal is to enable global memory version control for LLM-based
agent: every memory write produces a new whole-memory snapshot
(a commit), and rollback restores the entire long-term memory state
to a prior snapshot. This capability is critical for post-exposure
settings: after an agent has already observed later interactions,
we must be able to restore a historical memory state such that
downstream behavior (QA and summarization) is counterfactual—
as if post-𝑣 ∗ information never occurred.
ChronoMem focuses on (i) defining a systems-level abstraction
for global memory commits and rollback at the agent memory
boundary, and (ii) implementing a semantic control plane that maps
natural-language “undo” requests to concrete historical versions.
We do not attempt to undo arbitrary external side effects (e.g.,
third-party services) beyond the agent memory substrate; consistent restoration of external systems remains application-dependent,
consistent with the limitations of existing rewind mechanisms [4].

3.2

Architecture Overview

The Figure 2 depicts the rollback path from the data layer, index
layer, to the control layer. ChronoMem is implemented as a drop-in,
versioned MemoryService wrapper and consists of:
• LocalMemoryService (orchestrator). Intercepts memory
writes to create versions and persists them; exposes rollback
APIs such as
rollback_to_version(version_id) deterministically
restores the snapshot 𝑆 (𝑣 𝑣𝑖𝑑 ) and sets HEAD := 𝑣𝑖𝑑.
rollback_to_version_by_nl_query(query) resolves
a natural-language rollback request 𝑞 to a target version
𝑣ˆ via hybrid retrieval over semantic commit descriptors,
then invokes rollback_to_version(ˆ𝑣).
Both APIs are atomic at the per-(app,user) scope for identification purposes and preserve the interface invariant that all
subsequent memory reads are scoped to the active version
collections.
• SQLite memory store. Persists the append-only event log,
version metadata, and snapshot payloads, and maintains the
active version pointer (HEAD).
• Reranker module. Refines candidate rollback versions using a stronger relevance model (e.g., a cross-encoder reranker).
Interface invariant. ChronoMem enforces a simple invariant at
the memory boundary: reads are scoped to the active version (HEAD).
After rollback to 𝑣 ∗ , any subsequent memory read or retrieval must
behave as if only the state at 𝑣 ∗ exists (no post-𝑣 ∗ visibility).

3.3

Version Control and Semantic Rollback

ChronoMem exposes agent memory rollback as a systems problem:
given a natural-language undo request 𝑞, select a target historical
version 𝑣ˆ and restore the agent’s long-term memory state so that
all subsequent memory reads are scoped to that restored state. This
enables post-exposure counterfactual behavior: the agent may have
observed interactions after the desired point, but after rollback it
must behave as if only the rolled-back memory were available.
State model: versions, snapshots, and the event log. We model
long-term agent memory as an append-only event log L with explicit versions {𝑣 𝑗 } and snapshots 𝑆 (𝑣 𝑗 ), notably, we use 𝑣 𝑗 and

ChronoMem: Version Control and Semantic Rollback for Large Language Model Agent Memory

I’d buy some Vinyl for him
when I go shopping

𝒆𝒕 (𝒆𝟑 )=
{type = add,
fact = "buy vinyl for uncle"}

Human

Agent

HEAD = v3
Event Log 𝓛

Snapshots {S}

< 𝒆𝟏 , 𝒆𝟐 , 𝒆𝟑𝟑 … >

S(v1), S(v2), S(v3)...

Stage (3)
NL-Version mapping
(Hybrid Retrieval + Rerank)

Lexical
string

Please go back to before I
planned the Paris trip.

Version Index

Full-text
Search (FTS)
Index

Vector
Embedding
Index

Index maintenance

event_log

1

shopping list:+ fruit

2

going to Paris visit uncle
buy vinyl for visiting uncle
S(v3) Materialization
delta3, summary3,

Stage (1)
Version Construction op3, labels3
(commit-on-write)

Human

Query
Embedding
TopK

Reciprocal
Rank

Crossencoder

TopK

Fusion
(RRF)

Reranker

TopK

Top1

v1

rollback_version_id= v1

Index maintenance

Version Metadata: descriptors (d)

id

3
Appended
event in log

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

RollbackToVersion(rollback_version_id)
snap = S(v1)
RestoreStateFromSnapshot(snap)
HEAD = v1
d_vid = TruncateVersionsAfter(v1)
// v2, v3 deleted
Commit_transaction
RemoveRetrievalBackendVId(d_vid)

d1 = {delta1, summary1, op1, labels1}
d2 = {delta2, summary2, op2, labels2}
d3 = {delta3, summary3, op3, labels3}
…

Stage (2)
Version Indexing
(semantic commit descriptors)

Stage (4)
Deterministic Rollback
(id-based version restore)

Figure 2: The system architecture
version_id interchangeably to denote a globally unique version
identifier. Each memory write generates an immutable event 𝑒𝑖
appended to a serial log:
L = ⟨𝑒 1, 𝑒 2, . . . 𝑒 𝑗 ⟩,
following the event-sourcing principle that historical states can
be reconstructed from the event stream [3]. For auditability and
recovery, this mirrors write-ahead logging ideas (e.g., ARIES) in
spirit, but operates at the level of logical agent-memory state rather
than page-level database recovery [12]. Each event 𝑒𝑖 is associated
with a record timestamp 𝜏𝑖 indicating when the update is recorded.
A version 𝑣 𝑗 corresponds to a whole-memory snapshot materialized from a prefix of the log:
𝑆 (𝑣 𝑗 ) ≜ snap(⟨𝑒 1 ...𝑒𝑡 𝑗 ⟩),

𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒 𝑡 1 < 𝑡 2 < · · · < 𝑡 𝑗

where snap(·) serializes the full agent-memory state required by
downstream reasoning and 𝑡 𝑗 is the maximal event sequence number associated with version. This log+snapshot design avoids replaying the entire log during rollback and trades storage for fast
restoration.
Stage (1) Version construction: commit-on-write snapshots.
Our work ChronoMem creates a new version after each memory
write (commit-on-write) to support fine-grained rollback targets.
Operationally, a commit appends the new event to L, materializes
𝑆 (𝑣 𝑗 ), stores metadata, and advances the active pointer HEAD to the
latest version. Algorithm 1 shows the transactional write path.
Stage (2) Version index: semantic commit descriptors. Version indexing is version-level secondary index construction over
semantic commit descriptors. To support natural-language rollback,
each version 𝑣 𝑗 is indexed by a semantic commit descriptor d 𝑗 that

Algorithm 1 CommitOnWrite(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑒)
1: // Append event and create a new version 𝑣 𝑗 (commit-on-

write).
2: // Example: user says “I moved to NYC” ⇒ append event 𝑒 and

commit corresponding new version.
3: begin transaction
4: 𝑠𝑒𝑞 ← NextEventSeq(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟 )
5: 𝜏 ← Now();
6: AppendEvent(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑠𝑒𝑞, 𝜏, 𝑒)

⊲ record timestamp
⊲ immutable event log

insert
7: 𝑣𝑖𝑑 ← NextVersionId(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟 )
8: d ← BuildCommitDescriptor(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑠𝑒𝑞)

⊲
{delta, summary, op, labels}
9: 𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝 ← MaterializeSnapshot(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑠𝑒𝑞)
⊲ serialize
whole-memory state (e.g., session_events)
10: PersistVersion(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑, 𝑠𝑒𝑞, 𝜏, d, 𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝)
⊲ store
metadata + snapshot payload
11: SetHead(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑)
⊲ advance active version pointer
12: commit transaction
13: return 𝑣𝑖𝑑

summarizes the incremental change introduced at 𝑣 𝑗 :
d 𝑗 ≜ {delta 𝑗 , summary 𝑗 , op 𝑗 , labels 𝑗 }.
Here delta 𝑗 captures operation-level changes (e.g., added/updated/removed facts), summary 𝑗 provides a compact natural-language
description, op 𝑗 denotes update types, and labels 𝑗 contains temporal metadata (e.g., session index and record timestamp 𝜏). These
descriptors form the retrieval surface for semantic rollback.
Importantly, hybrid retrieval is performed over {d 𝑗 } (the version
index), rather than over full snapshots 𝑆 (𝑣 𝑗 ) or raw events L. This

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

Algorithm 2 RollbackToVersion(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑)
1: begin transaction
2: 𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝 ← LoadSnapshot(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑)
3: RestoreStateFromSnapshot(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝)
4: SetHead(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑)
5: TruncateVersionsAfter(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑)
6: commit transaction
7: SynchronizeRetrievalBackendIfAny(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, 𝑣𝑖𝑑, 𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝) ⊲

best-effort; idempotent
8: return 𝑣𝑖𝑑

ensures that rollback selection is version-level and computationally
bounded by the number of commits, independent of snapshot size.
Formally, lexical retrieval over commit descriptors scales with
the number of versions |{𝑣 𝑗 }| under inverted indexing, while dense
retrieval follows vector’s approximate nearest neighbor (ANN)
search complexity bounds [18]. Thus, we search a smaller-order
data change log rather than the entire underlying data; the selection cost is independent of snapshot size |𝑆 (𝑣 𝑗 )|, since snapshot
payloads are accessed only after a target version is chosen.

Yongye Su, Wujiang Xu, Chaoji Zuo, and Elisa Bertino

linear history. If a retrieval-backed index is used, we synchronize it
best-effort after the local state commit.
As a last resort, ChronoMem maintains an explicit ID-based API
(rollback_to_version(version_id)) as a primitive for version
maintenance and reproducibility. Semantic rollback function interface (rollback_to_version_by_nl_query(query)) composes
over it: it resolves natural language query mapping 𝑞 ↦→ 𝑣ˆ via retrieval and then invokes the same deterministic restore path. This
separation avoids conflating (i) selection errors with (ii) restoring
correctness, and makes evaluation interpretable.

4

(RQ1) Semantic version selection:
Given a natural-language rollback request, how accurately
does ChronoMem select the intended target version 𝑣 ∗ among
historical snapshots? This is to prevent conflating task performance with the correctness of version selection.
(RQ2) Rollback-consistent QA:
After rolling back to a target memory version 𝑣 ∗ , can the
agent answer questions correctly as if only 𝑣 ∗ were available,
without leaking post-𝑣 ∗ information?
(RQ3) Rollback-consistent summarization:
After rolling back to 𝑣 ∗ , can the agent generate event summaries that are temporally consistent with the historical
state at 𝑣 ∗ , rather than reflecting later updates?

Stage (3): NL→version mapping via hybrid retrieval. Given
a natural-language rollback request 𝑞, ChronoMem selects a target
version using a standard two-stage retrieval stack: lexical retrieval
and dense semantic retrieval in parallel over {d 𝑗 }, followed by
fusion and reranking.
Lexical retrieval. We use SQLite FTS5 BM25-style ranking over
commit descriptors, e.g.:
Listing 1: Lexical retrieval over commit descriptors using
SQLite FTS5 BM25 (lower bm25() is better).
SELECT version_id, bm25(commit_desc_fts) AS bm25_score
FROM commit_desc_fts
WHERE commit_desc_fts MATCH 'before Paris trip conversation'
ORDER BY bm25(commit_desc_fts) ASC, rowid ASC
LIMIT ?;

Dense retrieval. In parallel, we embed commit descriptors and
retrieve top-𝐾 by vector similarity.
Fusion (RRF). We fuse the two ranked lists with Reciprocal Rank
Fusion:
∑︁
1
RRF(𝑣 𝑗 | 𝑞) =
,
𝑘 0 + rank𝑚 (𝑣 𝑗 )
𝑚∈ {lex,sem}

where rank𝑚 (·) starts from 1 and 𝑘 0 is a constant (commonly set
to 60 in practice).
Reranking. Finally, ChronoMem optionally reranks the top-𝐾
fused candidates with a stronger relevance model (e.g., a crossencoder) and selects ˆ𝑣.
Stage (4): Version rollback execution (ID-based). Semantic
rollback is a control-plane operation that resolves 𝑞 to a concrete
version identifier ˆ𝑣. The actual state transition is executed by a
deterministic data-plane primitive:
RollbackToVersion(𝑎𝑝𝑝, 𝑢𝑠𝑒𝑟, ˆ𝑣),
which restores the snapshot 𝑆 ( ˆ𝑣) and updates HEAD. Algorithm 2
shows the rollback path: load snapshot payload, restore the local
memory state, set HEAD, and truncate later versions to maintain a

Experiment Setup

We evaluate ChronoMem on two long-horizon memory-agent benchmarks and adapt them to a rollback setting, focusing on two downstream tasks: question answering and event summarization. Our
experiments are designed to answer the following questions:

4.1

Datasets and Usage

LoCoMo. It is a very long-term conversational benchmark with
multi-session dialogues and tasks, including question answering
and event summarization [11]. We use LoCoMo to evaluate rollbackconsistent QA and rollback-consistent history summarization.
MemoryAgentBench (MAB). It evaluates memory agents under
incremental multi-turn ingestion and formalizes competencies including Accurate Retrieval, Test-Time Learning, Long-Range Understanding, and Conflict Resolution [7]. We use MAB to stress
semantic rollback under frequent updates.
Post-exposure rollback protocol. Both datasets are originally designed for forward-evolving memory. To evaluate post-exposure
rollback, we run the agent according to two phases: (1) Exposure:
ingest the full interaction stream to the final state 𝑣𝑇 ; (2) Rollback:
issue a natural-language rollback request and restore to a specific
version ˆ𝑣; then execute the downstream task (QA or summarization)
on the restored state. This protocol enforces a counterfactual requirement: the agent has already observed interactions after 𝑣 ∗ , but
should behave as if only the rolled-back state were available. Here
we define the ground-truth target 𝑣 ∗ by the annotated evidence
scope (LoCoMo) [11] and by the constructed update boundary in
incremental streams (MAB) [7].

ChronoMem: Version Control and Semantic Rollback for Large Language Model Agent Memory

Rollback query construction. To evaluate semantic rollback, we
construct natural-language rollback requests that specify an intended historical state 𝑣 ∗ without exposing internal version identifiers. For each instance, we first derive a grounded anchor from
dataset annotations available at or before 𝑣 ∗ . For LoCoMo, we use
the annotated QA evidence spans (dialog IDs containing the answer)
and session-level event annotations as anchors when available [11].
For MAB, we use the constructed update boundary and the associated pre-update memory content as the anchor [7]. We then
generate rollback queries in two ways: (i) ground-truth-backed templates (e.g., “undo the update about {anchor}”; “go back to when
{anchor} was true”), and (ii) LLM-generated paraphrases of these templates to increase linguistic diversity. To avoid trivializing version
selection, we disallow explicit version IDs, timestamps, or session
indices in rollback queries. We constrain LLM generation to preserve the anchor semantics and discard any query whose reference
does not uniquely identify the intended historical scope.

4.2

Metrics

We report both version selection quality (RQ1) and downstream correctness after semantic rollback (RQ2–RQ3) as a result of semantic
rollback.
Semantic version selection (RQ1). Let 𝑣ˆ be the selected version
and 𝑣 ∗ the ground-truth target rollback version. We evaluate:
• Recall@1: whether 𝑣ˆ = 𝑣 ∗ .
• Recall@𝑘: whether 𝑣 ∗ appears in the top-𝑘 retrieved candidates before final selection.
• Scope@ 𝑘2 : temporal locality defined as Pr[|Δ| ≤ 𝑘2 ], where
Δ = |𝑣ˆ − 𝑣 ∗ | in target rollback index (or session index when
aligned).
Scope@ 𝑘2 diagnoses “near-miss” behavior when adjacent versions
are semantically similar. While Recall@𝑘 measures whether the
ground-truth version 𝑣 ∗ appears among the top-𝑘 retrieved candidates, Scope@ 𝑘2 instead evaluates temporal proximity by measuring
whether the selected version 𝑣ˆ lies within 𝑘2 steps of 𝑣 ∗ along the
version timeline (i.e., |𝑣ˆ − 𝑣 ∗ | ≤ 𝑘). Thus, although both metrics
involve a parameter 𝑘, Recall@𝑘 reflects ranking accuracy within
the candidate set, whereas Scope@ 𝑘2 reflects temporal locality of
the final 1 selection.
Rollback-consistent QA (RQ2). We evaluate QA outputs produced
after rollback using dataset ground-truth answers, reporting Exact
Match and/or F1 following prior benchmark practice [11]. When
applicable, we additionally report whether the answer contains
post-𝑣 ∗ facts, treating any reliance on later information as a rollbackconsistency violation.
Rollback-consistent summarization (RQ3). For event/history summarization, we compute ROUGE-1 against reference summaries
corresponding to the target historical scope [10]. Higher ROUGE indicates that the restored memory state yields summaries consistent
with the intended timeline.

4.3

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

Baselines

We compare ChronoMem (semantic global rollback) against baselines that approximate rollback without restoring a global memory
snapshot.
Prompt-only rollback. We provide the natural-language rollback
instruction together with the downstream task query, while keeping
the underlying memory state unchanged. This baseline evaluates
whether the LLM can implicitly infer the intended historical state
from the conversation and suppress post-𝑣 ∗ information through
instruction following alone, without structural state isolation.
Full-history prompt rollback. We include the entire interaction
history in the model input (including content after 𝑣 ∗ ) and instruct
the model to answer “as if” rolled back. This represents a stronger
post-exposure stress test under maximal contamination, where the
model must reason over the full context and ignore information
beyond the intended rollback boundary.
Retrieval-only rollback (vector-db only). We approximate rollback
by retrieving relevant historical memory items using dense similarity search (ANN top-𝑘) and generating answers conditioned
on the retrieved snippets, without restoring a versioned snapshot.
This baseline isolates the effect of explicit version-scoped state
restoration from standard retrieval augmentation.

5

Evaluation

This section presents a comprehensive empirical evaluation of
ChronoMem under the rollback protocol defined in Section 4. Our
goal is not only to measure task performance but to isolate and quantify the architectural contribution of explicit version restoration.
Unlike standard memory-agent evaluations that assume forwardonly evolution, our setting introduces a structural state transition
prior to task execution; we therefore evaluate ChronoMem along
two orthogonal axes: (i) the correctness of semantic version resolution, and (ii) the behavioral correctness of the agent after state
restoration. All downstream metrics are reported on the same set
of rollback instances to ensure that improvements in QA or summarization are not confounded with version-selection quality.
Our evaluation explicitly tests whether rollback consistency can
be achieved solely through reasoning or whether it requires architectural support for historical state management. By comparing
ChronoMem against prompt-only and retrieval-based baselines
with comparable backbone models, we aim to demonstrate that
counterfactual correctness under post-exposure conditions cannot be reliably obtained without explicit version-scoped memory
restoration. Unless otherwise specified, all experiments follow the
exposure–rollback–execution protocol described in Section 4. We
report results on both LoCoMo [11] and MemoryAgentBench [7],
covering semantic version selection accuracy, rollback-consistent
QA, and rollback-consistent summarization, and further analyze
ablations and system-level overhead to characterize the trade-offs
introduced by semantic version control.

5.1

RQ1: Semantic Version Selection

We first evaluate semantic version selection independently of downstream QA and summarization tasks. In this setting, no generative

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

Method
BM25-only
Dense-only
Hybrid (RRF)
ChronoMem

Yongye Su, Wujiang Xu, Chaoji Zuo, and Elisa Bertino

Recall@1 ↑

Recall@5 ↑

Scope@2 ↑

9.3%
8.7%
12.0%
20.5%

22.3%
23.6%
28.1%
38.9%

13.1%
12.8%
17.9%
31.2%

Table 2: Semantic version selection performance on LoCoMo.

Method
BM25-only
Dense-only
Hybrid (RRF)
ChronoMem

Recall@1 ↑

Recall@5 ↑

Scope@2 ↑

14.1%
12.7%
24.3%
33.4%

44.6%
46.4%
53.8%
60.2%

23.3%
24.9%
40.5%
58.0%

models. On LoCoMo, ChronoMem improves QA F1 over the strongest
non-versioned baseline (RAG-only) for all backbones, indicating
that explicit version-scoped state restoration provides benefits beyond standard retrieval augmentation on long-horizon conversations [11]. Notably, prompt-only rollback performs near chance,
suggesting that post-exposure contamination is difficult to overcome through prompting alone once the agent has already observed
subsequent interactions. On MAB, where we restrict evaluation
to the Accurate Retrieval category due to task-scope constraints,
ChronoMem again yields the strongest performance across all backbones, confirming that deterministic global snapshot restoration
is effective for counterfactual QA in an incremental, multi-turn
memory setting.
Method

Table 3: Semantic version selection performance on MAB

decoding is involved; the evaluation concerns only the naturallanguage-to-version resolution pipeline described in Section 3.3.
Given a rollback query, we assess the quality of version targeting
using hybrid retrieval followed by cross-encoder reranking. Unless
otherwise specified, we use Cohere Rerank-3.5 as the cross-encoder
model throughout.4 All metrics are computed over the selected
version identifiers without invoking the backbone LLM used for
task execution.
As shown in Tables 2 and 3, ChronoMem substantially outperforms all baselines in Recall@1 and Recall@5 on both datasets,
demonstrating that rollback version selection benefits from explicit version-level indexing and hybrid retrieval rather than from
prompt-based self-suppression or snippet-level similarity search.
On LoCoMo, ChronoMem improves Recall@1 from 12.0% (Hybrid) to
20.5% and Recall@5 from 28.1% to 38.9%; similar gains are observed
on MAB (24.3%→39.4% in Recall@1, 53.8%→65.2% in Recall@5).
The consistent improvements across both benchmarks indicate
that explicit version-level indexing combined with temporal-aware
reranking is critical for reliable rollback selection. Scope@2 further
reveals that even when exact matching fails, ChronoMem more frequently selects temporally adjacent versions (e.g., 31.2% vs. 17.9%
on LoCoMo), suggesting that temporal-aware reranking effectively
disambiguates semantically similar neighboring versions. Overall,
hybrid fusion alone is insufficient; the reranking stage is essential
for resolving such cases. These results validate our system design
and confirm that semantic rollback is fundamentally a versionselection problem over structured historical states rather than a
conventional snippet-level retrieval task.

5.2

RQ2: Rollback-Consistent QA

Tables 4 and 5 report question-answering performance after semantic rollback under the post-exposure protocol. In contrast to
prompt-only baselines, which attempt to suppress post-𝑣 ∗ information through instruction following, and retrieval-only approximations, which rely on snippet-level similarity search without
restoring a global memory state, ChronoMem consistently achieves
the best post-rollback QA performance across all three backbone
4 https://cohere.com/blog/rerank-3pt5

Prompt-only
Full-history
RAG-only
ChronoMem

Llama-3.1-8B

Qwen2.5-7B

Mistral-7B

2.3%
19.3%
28.9%
36.1%

2.8%
20.6%
27.1%
38.5%

0.9%
13.5%
19.4%
31.3%

Table 4: Rollback-consistent QA F1 (%) across different base
models on LoCoMo dataset.

Method
Prompt-only
Full-history
RAG-only
ChronoMem

Llama-3.1-8B

Qwen2.5-7B

Mistral-7B

0.8%
21.3%
35.5%
53.8%

1.2%
24.7%
34.2%
55.1%

0.0%
14.9%
31.0%
44.6%

Table 5: Rollback-consistent QA on MemoryAgentBench (Accurate Retrieval subset), reported as task-specific accuracy
(%) [7].

5.3

RQ3: Rollback-Consistent Summarization

Tables 6 and 7 report summarization quality after semantic rollback
on LoCoMo and MAB, respectively. Across all backbone models,
ChronoMem achieves the best performance, indicating that explicit
global snapshot restoration yields summaries that are more temporally consistent with the intended historical state. On LoCoMo,
ChronoMem improves ROUGE-1 over the strongest non-versioned
baseline for all three backbones (e.g., 0.25 vs. 0.21 on Llama-3.1-8B).
Prompt-only rollback performs poorly, suggesting that instructing the model to “ignore” post-𝑣 ∗ information is insufficient for
counterfactual summarization once the agent has been exposed to
subsequent interactions. Retrieval-only rollback can outperform
full-history prompting on LoCoMo, consistent with the intuition
that providing the entire contaminated history makes it harder for
the model to maintain a clean temporal scope. On MAB En.Sum,
ChronoMem again yields the strongest F1 across backbones; here,
full-history prompting outperforms retrieval-only rollback, reflecting that summarization in this setting depends on global coherence
and cannot be reliably reconstructed from a small set of retrieved
snippets. Overall, these results confirm that rollback-consistent

ChronoMem: Version Control and Semantic Rollback for Large Language Model Agent Memory

summarization benefits from global memory restoration and state
isolation rather than from prompt-based suppression or snippetlevel retrieval alone.
Method

Llama-3.1-8B

Qwen2.5-7B

Mistral-7B

0.10
0.17
0.21
0.25

0.09
0.13
0.20
0.22

0.04
0.11
0.14
0.17

Prompt-only
Full-history
RAG-only
ChronoMem

Table 6: Rollback-consistent summarization task ROUGE-1
reported in [0,1] score across different base models on LoCoMo dataset.

Method

Llama-3.1-8B

Qwen2.5-7B

Mistral-7B

2.0%
8.0%
3.0%
13.0%

3.0%
8.0%
2.0%
14.0%

0.0%
1.0%
0.0%
7.0%

Prompt-only
Full-history
RAG-only
ChronoMem

Table 7: Rollback-consistent summarization on MAB
(En.Sum), reported as F1 (%).

6

Conclusion

We presented ChronoMem, an open-source semantic version-control
layer for agent memory integrated into a production-ready agent
framework (ADK). ChronoMemtreats long-term agent memory as
a versioned state machine: each memory write produces a wholememory snapshot (a commit), and rollback restores a prior global
snapshot so that subsequent reads are scoped to the restored version
(HEAD). This design reduces natural-language “undo” to a systems
problem of NL→version resolution followed by a deterministic restore primitive, rather than relying on prompting or best-effort
retrieval to suppress later information. Across two long-horizon
benchmarks adapted to a post-exposure rollback setting, ChronoMem
achieves the strongest semantic version selection performance and
yields consistent downstream improvements after rollback. Compared to the strongest baseline without global snapshot restoration,
ChronoMem improves rollback-consistent QA and summarization
by approximately 10 percentage points on average across datasets
and backbone models. These results support a central takeaway:
rollback-consistent behavior under post-exposure is primarily an architectural property enabled by explicit version-scoped state restoration, not something that emerges reliably from instruction following or snippet-level similarity search alone. We believe ChronoMem
provides a practical foundation for controllable, auditable agent
memory in open-source agent stacks. Promising future directions
include rollback-native benchmarks with more realistic user rollback intents, branching histories beyond linear truncation, and
higher-concurrency memory backends with stronger multi-writer
transactional semantics.

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

Limitations
Concurrency and transactional semantics. ChronoMem serializes
commit/rollback operations with a per-user lock and relies on
SQLite transactions for atomic local state transitions. However,
we do not experimentally evaluate high-concurrency settings (e.g.,
many simultaneous sessions/users issuing frequent commits and
rollbacks). This is particularly relevant because SQLite serializes
writes (single-writer at a time) and uses file-level locking; writeheavy workloads may experience contention and queueing. A rigorous evaluation of concurrency, contention, and multi-writer scalability (e.g., WAL/WAL2 optimizations) remains future work.
Linear history only (no branching/merging). Our current implementation maintains a linear version history and truncates versions
after a rollback (Git “reset”-style). Supporting branching timelines
and merges is conceptually straightforward but is not implemented
or evaluated in this work.
Benchmark adaptation and query generation. We adapt existing long-horizon memory benchmarks to a post-exposure rollback
setting and construct rollback queries using ground-truth-backed
anchors with constrained LLM paraphrasing. While this enables a
controlled and systematic evaluation, these benchmarks were not
originally designed for versioned rollback scenarios. Consequently,
the induced rollback query distribution may not fully capture the
diversity, ambiguity, and partial specification of real-world user
rollback intents.
Our results therefore demonstrate the architectural soundness
and robustness of semantic rollback under controlled long-horizon
settings, rather than claiming a complete characterization of rollback behavior in production-scale agent deployments.

References
[1] Zhaorun Chen, Zhen Xiang, Chaowei Xiao, Dawn Song, and Bo Li. 2024. AgentPoison: Red-teaming LLM Agents via Poisoning Memory or Knowledge Bases.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.12784 (2024). https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12784
[2] Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term
memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413 (2025).
[3] Martin Fowler. 2005. Event Sourcing. https://www.martinfowler.com/eaaDev/
EventSourcing.html. Accessed: 2026-02-25.
[4] Google Cloud. 2024. Session Rewind – Agent Development Kit (ADK) Documentation. https://google.github.io/adk-docs/sessions/session/rewind/.
[5] Google Cloud. 2025. Memory Revisions in Vertex AI Agent Engine Memory
Bank. https://docs.cloud.google.com/agent-builder/agent-engine/memory-bank/
revisions. Accessed: 2025-12-14.
[6] Yuki Hou, Haruki Tamoto, and Homei Miyashita. 2024. "My agent understands
me better": Integrating Dynamic Human-like Memory Recall and Consolidation
in LLM-Based Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00573 (2024). https://arxiv.org/
abs/2404.00573
[7] Yuanzhe Hu, Yu Wang, and Julian McAuley. 2025. Evaluating Memory in LLM
Agents via Incremental Multi-Turn Interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.05257
(2025). https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.05257
[8] Ziheng Huang, Sebastian Gutierrez, Hemanth Kamana, and Stephen MacNeil.
2023. Memory Sandbox: Transparent and Interactive Memory Management for
Conversational Agents. In Adjunct Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium
on User Interface Software and Technology. https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01542
[9] Hao Li, Chenghao Yang, An Zhang, Yang Deng, Xiang Wang, and Tat-Seng Chua.
2025. Hello Again! LLM-powered Personalized Agent for Long-term Dialogue.
In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume
1: Long Papers), Luis Chiruzzo, Alan Ritter, and Lu Wang (Eds.). Association for
Computational Linguistics, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 5259–5276. doi:10.18653/
v1/2025.naacl-long.272
[10] Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries.
In Text summarization branches out. 74–81.

ACM CAIS, May 26–29, 2026, San Jose, CA

[11] Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, Mohit Bansal, Francesco
Barbieri, and Yuwei Fang. 2024. Evaluating Very Long-Term Conversational
Memory of LLM Agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Association for Computational Linguistics,
Bangkok, Thailand. https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.747/
[12] Chandrasekaran Mohan, Don Haderle, Bruce Lindsay, Hamid Pirahesh, and
Peter Schwarz. 1992. ARIES: A transaction recovery method supporting finegranularity locking and partial rollbacks using write-ahead logging. ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) 17, 1 (1992), 94–162.
[13] OpenAI. 2024. OpenAI Agents SDK: Session Persistence Documentation. https://
openai.github.io/openai-agents-python/ref/run_internal/session_persistence/.
[14] OpenAI. 2024. OpenAI Agents SDK: Sessions Documentation. https://openai.
github.io/openai-agents-python/sessions/.
[15] Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin Lin, Sarah Wooders, and
Joseph_E Gonzalez. 2023. MemGPT: Towards LLMs as Operating Systems. (2023).
[16] Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy
Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th annual acm symposium on user
interface software and technology. 1–22.
[17] Preston Rasmussen, Pavlo Paliychuk, Travis Beauvais, Jack Ryan, and Daniel
Chalef. 2025. Zep: a temporal knowledge graph architecture for agent memory.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13956 (2025).

Yongye Su, Wujiang Xu, Chaoji Zuo, and Elisa Bertino

[18] Yongye Su, Yinqi Sun, Minjia Zhang, and Jianguo Wang. 2024. Vexless: A Serverless Vector Data Management System Using Cloud Functions. Proc. ACM Manag.
Data 2, 3, Article 187 (May 2024), 26 pages. doi:10.1145/3654990
[19] Junde Wu. 2025. Git Context Controller: Manage the Context of LLM-based
Agents like Git. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.00031 (2025). https://arxiv.org/abs/
2508.00031
[20] Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Juntao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang.
2025. A-Mem: Agentic Memory for LLM Agents. In NeurIPS 2025. https://
openreview.net/forum?id=FiM0M8gcct
[21] Jinghan Zeng, Eugene Wu, and Sanjay Krishnan. 2024. A Simple and Fast Way
to Handle Semantic Errors in Transactions. arXiv:2412.12493 [cs.DB] https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2412.12493
[22] Zeyu Zhang, Xiaohe Bo, Chen Ma, Rui Li, Xu Chen, Quanyu Dai, Jieming Zhu,
Zhenhua Dong, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2024. A Survey on the Memory Mechanism of
Large Language Model based Agents. arXiv:2404.13501 [cs.AI] https://arxiv.org/
abs/2404.13501
[23] Zhisong Zhang, Tianqing Fang, Kaixin Ma, Wenhao Yu, Hongming Zhang, Haitao
Mi, and Dong Yu. 2025. Enhancing web agents with explicit rollback mechanisms.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11788 (2025).
[24] Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. 2024. Memorybank: Enhancing large language models with long-term memory. In Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38. 19724–19731.

